Where are we going, Coach?
You'll know when we get there.
Kiddie Volleyball Class
Let's all have fun and play volleyball!
Let's go home and practice!
That was so much fun!
Kiddie Volleyball Class
Let's all have fun and play volleyball!
Sorry.
Hey, you made him cry.
What am I even doing here?
Shh, stop that.
The class is already over.
Show me how to serve, Tooru!
Hey! How about showing me some respect first?
O-Oikawa!
Come on! Move those legs!
Nice receive!
One more!
Whoa, I can't get that!
Are you sure you're supposed to be moving
around like that right after getting discharged?
I'm tired!
What?
If they let you out of the hospital, it means they're
giving you permission to move around all you want.
He's my grandpa.
Huh?
Huh?!
Gra...
Coach Ukai?!
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Ukai
So...
You couldn't figure out what to do with this
"deviant fast attack" and helplessly ran away, eh, Coach?
Episode Six:
"Tempo"
That's your team!
Grow some balls already!
Coach?!
He's the miracle worker who led no-name Karasuno to nationals!
"Karasuno's Ukai" became famous all across the nation.
They say he led a group of violent crows.
P-P-P-Please help me!
With what?
I don't go around smacking random people.
Just weaklings.
Damn you, old man...
I-I came here to learn to fight on my own!
You want to master mid-air combat at that height?
I want to because of my height!
I know it might sound weird, but...
What's weird about it?
Even if you're dealing with a prodigy of a setter,
in the type of attack known as a fast attack, the one controlling the pace...
is you.
You're the coach! Don't look so dumbfounded, punk!
Wh-What are you doing here, Oikawa?
I'm watching my nephew.
Hey!
H-Hey...
What about practice?
We usually have Mondays off.
Y-You guys get a break once a week? What a waste!
Getting rest and ditching practice are two different things.
See ya.
O-Oikawa, um...
Nope!
Stupid! You're stupid! You stupid face!
I haven't even said anything yet.
Oikawa—
Nope! Can't hear you! Can't hear a thing!
I beg you, please listen to what I have to say.
Why should I go out of my way to listen to what my opponent is going to say?
Please, Oikawa!
I beg you!
I beg you, please!
Takeru.
What's up?
Take a picture.
Hold it like this, and press here.
Don't move, Tobio.
Yay! I'll call this "Tobio is No Match For Oikawa"!
This picture actually makes you happy?
Talk about lame.
Well, what do you want?
I'm busy, you know?
You said you had free time since your girlfriend dumped you!
Shut up, Takeru!
What? But when you came,
you said you didn't know what you did wrong.
I told you to shut it!
So, uh, what if you were close to a tournament, and, uh...
And Iwaizumi said he was going to try some impossible attack...
Hey.
If you want to talk to me about something,
quit with the lame hypotheticals and give it to me straight.
Hinata said he wants to decide where to hit the fast attacks that he'd been hitting with his eyes closed.
Oh, really? That'd be pretty impressive if he could.
Why not let him?
Please don't make it sound so easy!
Hinata has nothing even approaching technique!
So you're saying, "Just do what I tell you" or something?
You sound like a dictator.
Have you even thought about whether or not you're really giving Shorty the kind of set he wants?
Have you even tried to?
Kageyama.
Set for me.
You're basically a coward if you think the situation's as good as it can be and act defensive about it.
Don't get the wrong idea.
The one who has the initiative in an attack isn't you. It's Shorty.
If you can't understand that,
you've basically regressed back to being a dictator.
Let's go, Takeru.
Are you in a good mood, Tooru?
I'm happy that Tobio's more run down that I thought he was.
I'm totally blurry!
It's not even about technique.
It's a problem with your mindset.
What do you personally think about that so-called deviant fast attack?
Let's see... I run like, zoom,
and with a bang I jump with all my might.
That's where a set vrooms in, so I swing with a whoosh, and it perfectly hits my hand and slash! We nail it.
Er, what he's trying to say is when he jumps with his eyes closed, our setter, Kageyama, sets the ball directly to—
I get what you're trying to say.
But you got it all wrong, Shrimp.
Even for that deviant fast attack, as long as it's
a type of fast attack, you still hold the initiative.
Make sure you really understand that.
Don't think of a weapon you wield as unfamiliar.
Well, I guess it's faster to just show you.
Shrimp, you try blocking for a bit.
You're a middle blocker, right?
Try stopping these.
You're in junior high?
Which school?
I'm in high school!
All right, here we go!
Okay!
Is this height for grade schoolers?
I feel a bit taller.
Third tempo!
"Third tempo"?
What an amazing jump!
Your face was totally above the net.
Well, yeah.
You've definitely got some spring in your step.
All right, next!
Second tempo!
It's faster than before, but...
All right, next!
First tempo!
Well?
It's fast!
Think you could block that?
I doubt one person could handle it. Um, sir!
In the three tempos you just saw,
was there a big difference in how the spiker hit?
No, I don't think so.... sir!
Then what was different?
The timing of their running approach?
Correct! That's what tempo is.
Listen.
The speed of an attack is determined by its tempo.
It's not how fast or slow the set may be,
it's the timing of the spiker's running approach.
The fastest is first tempo.
It's the best way to get around a block,
and it's probably the attack you were doing without realizing it.
But you need to really understand it.
You need to start your running
approach before the set goes up.
The setter sets to the spiker.
In other words, the deviant fast attack is still an attack with the initiative on the spiker.
First... tempo.
And so...
I don't know what kind of special attack the deviant fast attack is,
but there's one thing I'm certain of.
There's no better set than one the spiker can easily hit.
Just one of them is no good.
Huh?
Hinata, practice here for a bit!
S-Sure.
What a weirdo.
The timing of the spiker's running approach is everything.
One centimeter, one millimeter, one second faster to the peak...
But that's not enough.
Until now, the only thing I decided
on my own was to jump to the peak.
But in the future, you also want to fight at the peak.
In order for that to happen, your partner's gonna need some improvement as well.
But I'm pretty sure Keishin is
gonna do something about that.
Kageyama's really amazing, so I'm sure he'll make it work.
I don't want to be left behind,
so please teach me how to fight at the peak.
Don't get the wrong idea.
The one who has the initiative in an attack isn't you. It's Shorty.
If you can't understand that,
you've basically regressed back to being a dictator.
Yes, hello—
Kageyama! Where are you right now?!
Mr. Ukai?
I'm heading to the school right now.
What?!
I wanted to check out if they
were done inspecting the gym.
Ah!
Kageyama!
Whoa!
Don't overshoot it! Let it drop!
I'm sorry?!
A set that stops!
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
Shrimp,
if you're gonna fight at the peak on your own,
you're gonna have to start with the fundamentals.
So, from now on, you'll keep making fast attacks.
You need to earnestly make up for the practice you lack.
Hello!
Heyo!
There you are.
Hi!
Your task for the foreseeable future is to be
able to do first-tempo spikes with any setter.
Got it!
A newbie?
Your setter prodigy isn't here to set to you,
so it's not gonna be easy.
He's in junior... Oh, he's in high school.
Right!
Also, in order to get used to the ball, you need to always be touching it.
Always.
Yessir.
I don't care if you use your hand or foot.
Volleyball is a sport where you can't hold the ball.
You're only allowed to touch the ball for a few seconds.
You need to control that moment as
though the ball were a part of your body.
Because you're small, you need to
make up for it with everything else.
Right!
Foot of the Slope
Tempo?
Welcome.
Well, I know the basic theory behind it,
but I was never able to apply it.
I treated your fast attack as something special,
and because of that I almost
forgot something fundamental.
I think I have a good idea what tempo is now,
but what do you mean by "a set that stops"?
Okay, first...
When you're setting for your deviant fast attack,
it's a set that passes through the spiker's point of impact.
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Point of
Impact
Right.
But I want you to stop it right there!
Right at the point of impact!
So, basically...
You make it so that the spiker's highest impact point equals the peak of the ball's trajectory.
Don't use so much force that the ball passes through the spiker's point of impact.
Use just enough force to reach
the point of impact, and then...
Kill it?
The difficulty in controlling your power and how much backspin you put on it isn't going to be like before.
Not to mention B Quick, D Quick, and broad jumps...
The farther out you get, the more difficult they'll become.
Think you can do it?
Are you really giving Shorty the kind of set he wants?
Have you even tried to?
I'll definitely try.
Tanaka!
Oh?
I-I'm sorry about the other day!
No problem! Kageyama just came by too.
I'm sorry for hitting you guys.
Stop!
I got too worked up trying to stop you guys from fighting.
I really felt your punch!
But you shouldn't be fighting in front of girls!
Yacchan's face was as pale as a ghost.
T-T-Tanaka!
They're gonna die! They're gonna die!
Who's gonna die? You're scaring me!
Also, you shouldn't fight in front of the veep, either!
Do it anywhere else!
Yessir!
Hinata, come here a sec.
All right.
You'll be on the B team for our practice matches for a while.
He's all yours, Sugawara!
Yes, sir!
All right, let's get this started!
Make sure you stay hydrated!
Yessir!
Um, Hinata...
U-Um, I was wondering if you were okay...
Things between you and Kageyama, I mean, um, uh...
We're fine.
Class 1-3
Yui!
Sawamura's here.
What?
Hey...
I was wondering if we could borrow the gym after
you guys are done, even if it's just for a little while.
Oh, sure. I'll go ask.
Is something wrong with the second gymnasium?
No, it's just...
A lot of the guys are practicing on their own,
so we don't have enough space.
Damn it.
Serving is the ultimate attack.
Right now, the only person on the team who
can consistently do a jump serve is Kageyama.
Mine aren't as consistent, so I can't do it when it counts.
But that means...
I can't call it a weapon!
Asahi!
Mind if I join you?
Oh, yeah. Sure.
He shows up and nonchalantly digs that one out too. Damn.
Would you mind hitting some of my sets?
Yeah, sure.
Uh, wait, what?
You're going to set?
Is he...
going to try what Seijou's libero did?
I'll help you with your serving practice in return!
I can't just let myself fall behind.
Sure. Let's do this.
All right!
We'll leave the rest up to you guys.
First Gymnasium
Thanks!
Oh, here it is.
A video of the Brazilian national team attacking?
They all started moving at once.
Shinzen did an attack like this too.
Um...
A synchronized attack.
Next, please.
Got it!
Good evening!
Shou!
There you are, Shrimp.
Um, Coach Ukai, I've been meaning to tell you,
but my name isn't "Shrimp."
Those with no skill are nothing more than shrimps!
Come on! Let's go, Shrimp!
I'm ready!
Turn all your attention to jumping at full strength!
There you go.
You need to be able to hit the ball at any time at will,
regardless of who the setter is.
Yessir!
Don't try to line up with the ball! Jump on your own timing!
Fight on your own, without anyone's help!
Let's go!
Hey, Tsukki.
I gotta go this way.
I'm gonna go practice my serving a bit with Shimada.
Oh, sure.
See ya.
m 1041 478.5 l 1054.5 466.5 1150.5 450 1213.5 459 1212 501 1180.5 522 1143 525 1117.5 531 1071 529.5 1042.5 513
m 1086 409.5 l 1093.5 364.5 1090.5 328.5 1090.5 274.5 1101 181.5 1233 190.5 1234.5 288 1240.5 397.5 1216.5 421.5 1114.5 423
1st
2nd
3rd
Tempo
Report Card
Ice
Woooooooooooof
Oh, sorry! It might be a bit short!
Amazing! Nice cover, Shou!
Before, if the timing was off even a little bit, you started panicking.
Oh no. Oh no.
Shut up!
Until now, I was spiking without giving it
much thought thanks to an amazing setter.
But now, since everyone's techniques and quirks are different, I have to handle them all mid-air.
Though just a little, I can see the ball better than I did before.
Munchkin, help me out a bit over here!
The nickname went from "Shrimp" to "Munchkin"!
He's been promoted!
Is that really a promotion?
You're going to Tokyo in two days, aren't ya?
Nekoma's coming too, right?
Yes.
Our advisor told us that Coach Nekomata's the one who invited us over.
He's a bothersome old chap,
but his eye for volleyball is definitely genuine.
His players won't be able to be dealt with by any ordinary means, either.
Go get yourself knocked out till you feel sick!
Yes, sir!
First Gymnasium
All right!
Next, please!
You got it!
Now, as it's summer vacation,
we can practice from morning to night.
And starting tomorrow,
we'll resume the Tokyo away games.
This time, we'll be there for a solid week!
This training camp is the last and most important one before the spring tournament preliminaries.
As we approach the preliminaries, to make sure we have no regrets...
let's take this opportunity to devour everything down!
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
Noya, I heard you started practicing setting?
Yep! So I'm gonna make my approach from about here, and then...
Jumping Thunder Set!
Uh, wait. Where'd the ball go?
How about you start by practicing normal sets?
Episode Seven:
Moonrise
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"Moonrise."